3 I GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT I ACTIVITY AND RESULTS OF THE CORE BUSINESSES
2 I
ROE Earnings per Share
Group ROE is calculated on the basis of average Group shareholders’ For the calculation of earnings per share, in accordance with IAS 33, 
equity under IFRS. “Group net income for the period” is adjusted by the amount, net of 
tax impact, of capital gains/losses on partial buybacks of securities 
It excludes:
issued and classified as equity (EUR -7 million in 2015) and of the 
 
unrealised or deferred capital gains or losses booked directly 
interest remunerating said amounts (EUR -435 million in 2015 on 
under shareholders’ equity excluding conversion reserves; 
deeply subordinated and undated subordinated notes).
 
deeply subordinated notes;
Earnings per share is therefore calculated as the ratio of corrected 
Group net income for the period to the average number of ordinary 
 
undated subordinated notes restated as shareholders’ equity. 
shares outstanding, excluding own shares and treasury shares, but 
It deducts:
including (a) trading shares held by the Group and (b) shares held 
 under the liquidity contract.
interest payable to holders of deeply subordinated notes and of 
the restated, undated subordinated notes;
The Group also reports its adjusted earnings per share, i.e. corrected 
 
a provision in respect of the dividends to be paid to shareholders for the impact of non-economic items (revaluation of own financial 
st (1)
(EUR 1,593 million as at 31 December 2015). liabilities and DVA ). The related adjustments are specified in the 
“non-economic items” section below.
The net income used to calculate ROE is based on Group net income 
excluding interest, net of tax impact, to be paid to holders of deeply 
subordinated notes for the period and, since 2006, holders of deeply 
Net Assets
subordinated notes and restated, undated subordinated notes (see 
Net assets comprise Group shareholders’ equity, excluding:
below). The allocation of capital to the different business lines has 
st
 
deeply subordinated notes (EUR 9.5 billion), undated subordinated 
been carried out since 1 January 2014 on the basis of 10% of the 
weighted assets from the beginning of the period. notes previously recognised as debt (EUR 0.4 billion); and 
 
interest payable to holders of deeply subordinated notes and 
undated subordinated notes, but reinstating the book value of 
ROTE
trading shares held by the Group and shares held under the 
The Group’s ROTE is calculated on the basis of tangible capital, i.e. 
liquidity contract. 
excluding cumulative average book capital (Group share), average 
Tangible net assets are corrected for net goodwill in the assets and 
net goodwill in the assets, and underlying average goodwill relating 
goodwill under the equity method. 
to shareholdings in companies accounted for by the equity method. 
In order to calculate Net Asset Value Per Share or Tangible Net Asset 
The net income used to calculate ROTE is based on Group net income 
Value Per Share, the number of shares used to calculate book value 
excluding the goodwill impairment loss, interest net of tax on deeply 
st
per share is the number of shares issued at 31 December 2015, 
subordinated notes for the period (including issuance fees paid, for 
excluding own shares and treasury shares but including:
the period, to external parties and the discount charge related to the 
issue premium for deeply subordinated notes) and interest net of tax 
 
trading shares held by the Group; and 
on undated subordinated notes recognised as shareholders’ equity 
 
shares held under the liquidity contract.
for the current period (including issuance fees paid, for the period, to 
external parties and the discount charge related to the issue premium 
for undated subordinated notes).
(1) DVA (Debt Value Adjustment) and CVA (Credit Value Adjustment), value adjustments for credit risk, determined in accordance with IFRS 13.
2016 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT SOCIETE GENERALE GROUP
40 I  I 
nnnnnnnnn